{
  "magic": "E!vIA5L86J2I",
  "timestamp": "2026-02-10T03:18:14.853563+00:00",
  "repo": "jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles",
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "bug",
      "description": "Something isn't working",
      "color": "d73a4a"
    },
    {
      "name": "documentation",
      "description": "Improvements or additions to documentation",
      "color": "0075ca"
    },
    {
      "name": "duplicate",
      "description": "This issue or pull request already exists",
      "color": "cfd3d7"
    },
    {
      "name": "enhancement",
      "description": "New feature or request",
      "color": "a2eeef"
    },
    {
      "name": "good first issue",
      "description": "Good for newcomers",
      "color": "7057ff"
    },
    {
      "name": "help wanted",
      "description": "Extra attention is needed",
      "color": "008672"
    },
    {
      "name": "invalid",
      "description": "This doesn't seem right",
      "color": "e4e669"
    },
    {
      "name": "question",
      "description": "Further information is requested",
      "color": "d876e3"
    },
    {
      "name": "wontfix",
      "description": "This will not be worked on",
      "color": "ffffff"
    }
  ],
  "issues": [
    {
      "number": 3,
      "id": "I_kwDOQ9uW8s7pgVGv",
      "title": "Requirement for \"scim\" scope in access token",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/3",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "Zollnerd",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/blob/c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb/draft-schreiber-ipsie-scim-al1-profile.md#L112\n\nOAuth doesn't define scope names, which leads to a few thoughts:\n\n1. Should this requirement be changed to say something to the effect of \"must contain scopes that don't grant permission for actions outside of the SCIM service provider\"? \n\n2. As part of SCIM-related work in IPSIE, should we try to define specific scopes or a framework for designing scopes that would scale beyond users and groups?\n\n3. \"scim\" is still pretty broad, versus something like scim.groups.read or scim.users.readwrite - definitely feels more granular than a lot of implementations have today, but if we've got a chance to raise the bar, this sort of approach might be worth including.    ",
      "createdAt": "2026-02-09T18:15:26Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-02-09T18:20:19Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 4,
      "id": "I_kwDOQ9uW8s7pgplh",
      "title": "IPSIE \"roles\" vs SCIM \"groups\" statement incorrect",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/4",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "Zollnerd",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/blob/c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb/draft-schreiber-ipsie-scim-al1-profile.md#L197-L198\n\nSCIM has three distinct concepts currently - Groups, which are a resource type alongside Users, as well as attributes on the User resource \"roles\" and \"entitlements\". There are SCIM-enabled applications that support the user.roles attribute and do not support the group resource type. \n\nWe probably need to figure out what the actual protocol-agnostic requirement is and then map it into SCIM requirements.\n\n<!-- Edit the body of your new issue then click the \u2713 \"Create Issue\" button in the top right of the editor. The first line will be the issue title. Assignees and Labels follow after a blank line. Leave an empty line before beginning the body of the issue. -->",
      "createdAt": "2026-02-09T18:34:38Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-02-09T18:34:38Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 5,
      "id": "I_kwDOQ9uW8s7pgyYn",
      "title": "Does AL1 need a requirement to support groups?",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/5",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "Zollnerd",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/blob/c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb/draft-schreiber-ipsie-scim-al1-profile.md?plain=1#L239\n\nProbably related to https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/4\n\nNot all apps have a need to support groups. If they support something like \"roles\" or \"entitlements\" then that provides another way for the IDP to view and manage access in the app. Groups have a downside for entitlement granting into apps as well, as the SCIM group resource created by the client in the app can have any name (displayName is an arbitrary label) and what permissions are assigned to the group (and inherited by its members) is generally not visible to the IDP. ",
      "createdAt": "2026-02-09T18:43:41Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-02-09T18:50:22Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 6,
      "id": "I_kwDOQ9uW8s7phLri",
      "title": "All \"provisioning actions\" must be logged - clarify \"provisioning actions\"",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/6",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "Zollnerd",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/blob/c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb/draft-schreiber-ipsie-scim-al1-profile.md?plain=1#L260\n\nWe should clearly define \"provisioning actions\" - specifically, if it only covers modifications, or if reads are also expected to be logged. I can't think of any SCIM SP/IDP that logs each read request, and I think the definition should be that \"provisioning actions\" == create/update/delete (modifications) only",
      "createdAt": "2026-02-09T19:27:35Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-02-09T19:27:35Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 7,
      "id": "I_kwDOQ9uW8s7phQ8H",
      "title": "Explicitly disallow SCIM SPs from supporting the user \"password\" attribute",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/7",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "Zollnerd",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/blob/c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb/draft-schreiber-ipsie-scim-al1-profile.md?plain=1#L117\n\nNot sure where to put the requirement, but I think we should add one that explicitly disallows SCIM SPs from supporting the user \"password\" attribute. Federation/SSO should be required, which means that the \"password\" attribute on the User resource shouldn't be needed. There are legacy apps that may require passwords to be synced into them, but those won't be IPSIE SL* compliant and similarly shouldn't be AL* compliant, IMO. \n\nI'm not sure if a requirement is needed or useful on the IDP side - the IDP's client/provisioning service will always support a superset of features compared to what any single application may use, and an IDP's SCIM client supporting sending the user \"password\" attribute doesn't matter if it isn't being used with the SCIM SP. I can think of some possible implementation mistakes that could lead to security issues, such as mapping IDP's user.password to any random attribute on the application's end, and then using that to discover the user's password in the IDP - but my gut is that that isn't in IPSIE's scope.",
      "createdAt": "2026-02-09T19:34:52Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-02-09T19:34:52Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 8,
      "id": "I_kwDOQ9uW8s7phTy6",
      "title": "Add an explicit requirement for IDPs to NOT use PUT to update groups",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/8",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "Zollnerd",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/blob/c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb/draft-schreiber-ipsie-scim-al1-profile.md?plain=1#L185\n\nPUT is sketch enough while updating users, but it's an outrageously bad idea for groups. AL1 already says that PATCH must be supported, but given the SCIM protocol spec says support for PUT is a global requirement for updateable resources, I think an explicit SHALL NOT would be good. ",
      "createdAt": "2026-02-09T19:39:20Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-02-09T19:39:20Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 9,
      "id": "I_kwDOQ9uW8s7pheCo",
      "title": "Require JWT Bearer Assertion + DPoP in future (maybe not at AL1)",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/issues/9",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "Zollnerd",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/blob/c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb/draft-schreiber-ipsie-scim-al1-profile.md?plain=1#L101\n\nGiven the amount of power held in tokens used for IAM APIs, if/when https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-parecki-oauth-jwt-dpop-grant/ becomes an RFC I think it should be added to the authn/authz requirements. In an ideal world at AL1, but if not, then AL2. \n\nIf there are any other ways to improve the security around the tokens accessing the SCIM APIs, might be worth adding those to AL1 as well, especially if they're already an RFC and are easier to implement than DPoP.",
      "createdAt": "2026-02-09T19:55:01Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-02-09T19:55:01Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    }
  ],
  "pulls": [
    {
      "number": 1,
      "id": "PR_kwDOQ9uW8s6-zMEj",
      "title": "Nomenclature and clarifying updates",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/pull/1",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "PabloValarezo",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Expanding definitions to clarify references to IdP, SP, Client, and Server relationships.\r\n\r\n+ 'Role' definition\r\n\r\nMinor formatting changes",
      "createdAt": "2026-01-22T21:52:52Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-01-27T16:38:29Z",
      "baseRepository": "jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "ed7bf03b8f4f81acf17d8e89cb4615fb94d72b08",
      "headRepository": "PabloValarezo/scim-ipsie-profiles",
      "headRefName": "suggestions",
      "headRefOid": "3bddcc226e73b830abfcf8d6431ba1dea7f5b6c2",
      "closedAt": "2026-01-27T16:38:29Z",
      "mergedAt": "2026-01-27T16:38:29Z",
      "mergedBy": "jischr",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "PabloValarezo",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "No conflicts with base branch... merging",
          "createdAt": "2026-01-22T21:54:46Z",
          "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T21:54:46Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOQ9uW8s7cOf1p",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "3bddcc2"
          },
          "author": "jischr",
          "authorAssociation": "OWNER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:03:19Z",
          "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:03:19Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 31,
              "body": "So i think this is coming from IPSIE terminology. It was called the Identity Service... I think we need to discuss what we shall call these now that we are out of the context of IPSIE working group.",
              "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:03:19Z",
              "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:03:19Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOQ9uW8s7cOg1O",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "3bddcc2"
          },
          "author": "jischr",
          "authorAssociation": "OWNER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:04:34Z",
          "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:04:34Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 28,
              "body": "What about...\n\n\"A set of permissions that can be assigned to one or more user\"\n\nA bit simpler and we can remove the citation.",
              "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:04:34Z",
              "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:04:34Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOQ9uW8s7cO2XK",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "3bddcc2"
          },
          "author": "PabloValarezo",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:10Z",
          "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:10Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 28,
              "body": "Sounds good to me",
              "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:10Z",
              "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:10Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOQ9uW8s7cO23B",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "3bddcc2"
          },
          "author": "PabloValarezo",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:59Z",
          "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:59Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 31,
              "body": "Interesting. I'd like to hear more about the rationale to use this vs. the traditional IdP & SP naming",
              "createdAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:59Z",
              "updatedAt": "2026-01-22T22:36:59Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 2,
      "id": "PR_kwDOQ9uW8s6_u_9F",
      "title": "Suggestions - Misc corrections, adding author, updating references",
      "url": "https://github.com/jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles/pull/2",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "PabloValarezo",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Suggestions - Misc corrections, adding author, updating references",
      "createdAt": "2026-01-28T01:08:07Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-01-28T01:08:07Z",
      "baseRepository": "jischr/scim-ipsie-profiles",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "c289a468cd17d84b1878d9c33494e8c58e1559cb",
      "headRepository": "PabloValarezo/scim-ipsie-profiles",
      "headRefName": "suggestions",
      "headRefOid": "74432b498802f092848ac7eb65f3716ea3267255",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    }
  ]
}